All right, welcome.
Let's kick this thing off, shall we?
Yeah.
Before we begin though, wherever you
are sitting on your couch, hiding
out in your car, on your lunch break,
lying awake at midnight, wherever.
Just wanna say a big thank you.
Thank you for showing up, and
I hope you're ready for the
greatest adventure of your life.
And no, I'm not just saying that.
Okay.
If I'm honest, I feel a little bit like
Morpheus from the Matrix right now.
I know exactly what kind of door I'm
about to open, and you won't have a
clue until you take that first step.
But don't worry, okay?
You have everything you
need already within you.
This course is called The Journey
Home for a reason, because you're
not broken, you're not behind.
You don't need to become someone new.
You just need to remember who you
were before the world told you
you needed to be someone else.
This course is about coming home to that
person, the person you've always been.
Now I've done this in my own life and
there were some specific tools and ways
of thinking that really helped me to make
it the most spectacular experience of my
life, and I wanna share those with you.
So here's a bit of my story.
When I was 21, I lived in East Africa.
I was traveling all around Kenya
and Ethiopia, and that experience
opened my eyes to ways of being
that changed me in deep ways.
So when I came back to the
states, I studied linguistics
and anthropology in college.
I was immersing myself in other languages,
other cultures and other stories.
And through studying so many
other ways of being, I've learned
something simple but powerful.
The stories we tell as
humans are actually maps.
And if we know how to read those maps,
they reveal something incredible.
Who we really are, where we lost our way.
And how to get back to the life
we were always meant to live.
In this course,
i'll walk you through that exact map.
And not just in theory, though there will
be some of that, but by helping you find
yourself in your own story to help you
wake up on the page of your own great
adventure and to empower you to write
your life the way you want it to read.
So in this video, I'm gonna lay
out the basic principles that
this entire course is based on.
I'm gonna show you both the problem and
the solution, and I'll help you see the
ways that these stories you've known for
your entire life might just be the key
to everything you've been looking for.
So sit back, relax.
Let's begin with this story, your story.
When you were young,
you believed in magic.
You believed in Santa
Claus and the Easter Bunny.
You believed in uncles that could
pull quarters from your ears.
And if you were like me, you
fully expected to see your
friendly neighborhood, Spider-Man
in your neighborhood, right?
Yeah.
Make believe came naturally.
You giggled without hesitation.
You sang out of tune and you
danced like no one was watching.
And the truth is you wouldn't have cared
if they were because you were whole.
You were wild.
You were you.
But then life stepped in, didn't it?
You learned how to be embarrassed.
You learned to play by society's rules.
You traded magic for practicality.
You exchanged wonder for facts.
And you picked up
something else too, masks.
You smiled when you were sad.
You liked what made you
popular and you hid.
What made you feel different?
We all did.
We learned how to survive by pretending
to be who people wanted us to be.
And eventually we pretended well
enough for long enough that we
forgot there was ever someone
underneath that mask to begin with.
Now, let's be clear.
I'm not saying that society is evil, okay?
Cultural norms and expectations,
they help us cooperate, build
families, create cities, but
that order does come at a cost.
We are the most technologically
advanced generation in history, and
simultaneously the most disconnected.
Anxiety is everywhere.
Depression is rising.
Loneliness is a public health crisis.
And deep down so many of us feel
like strangers in our own lives.
Even those of us without a diagnosis
know the root of this pain.
It's the silent grief of compromise.
We recognize that hollow feeling inside.
When our kids come up to us and say, I
wanna be a dancer when I grow up, mommy.
We say, well, that's nice sweetheart,
but it won't pay the bills.
Have you heard of engineering?
We've become hyper
functional, but disconnected.
So what's really going on here?
Well, it's this.
There's the person you think you are, and
then there's the person you actually are.
And that person has been hidden
under years of adaptation, of
appeasement, of self-denial.
We feel unhappy because we're
chasing the dreams of a person
we only ever pretended to be.
We're living in the shadow of an
imposter and we've left the desires
of our true self in that darkness, and
I'm not the only one who thinks this.
The psychotherapist, Milton Erickson said,
patients are patients because they're out
of rapport with their unconscious right.
Two people, conscious and unconscious.
Tony Robbins the famous motivational
speaker, he frames it differently.
He says, pain exists when our life
conditions are out of alignment
with our internal blueprint.
Okay.
And that gap between where we are and
where we wish to be between what we
hope for and what we actually see.
That's where suffering lives.
It's where anxiety, emptiness,
and disconnection make their home.
That pain that you feel, it's
not weakness, it's not a defect.
It's a compass.
I say it a little bit differently
than Erickson or Robins.
I say this dis-ease
that you feel that ache.
It's the war cry of your most authentic
self, and it's rebelling against a
life that won't allow it to be free.
But if you listen closely,  it
will point the way back home.
So what are you saying here, Jake?
We still have to make money.
We still have to live in the world.
You want us to just go hide under a rock?
Yeah.
No, that's not what I'm saying.
You don't have to burn it all down.
You don't need to run away
and quit your job tomorrow.
The solution isn't escape.
It's a quest.
I mean, come on.
What's cooler than a quest?
Right?
This is a call to adventure, A call to
remember, a call to reclaim, to come home.
You see that original self,
whole, curious, and free still
exists beneath the masks ready
to be found, ready to be rescued.
Your compromises, they
formed a maze, okay?
And at its center lies your authentic
self, your purpose, your treasure.
And like any good treasure,
there has to be a map, right?
Yeah, there is.
And here's the good news.
I have it.
And for just three easy payments of
1995, you could, no, just kidding.
I have it.
And so do you.
What if I told you that the fairy
tales, the myths, the legends from your
childhood, they weren't just stories.
What if I said they were actually
training manuals in disguise?
That's what this guy
said, Joseph Campbell.
He was a scholar of world
mythology and religion, and he
discovered something incredible.
Cultures across time and space from
ancient Greece to West Africa, from the
American, southwest, Aboriginal Australia.
No matter where they showed up
or when they showed up, they all
told the same fundamental story.
He called it the Hero's
Journey, and he said that it is
universal because the story of
transformation is the human story.
Myths across time are just the
same journey in different costumes.
So let me show you what this
looks like in a story most of
us are familiar with, right?
Luke Skywalker in Star Wars Now
Luke is just a farm boy growing up
on tattooing until he stumbles upon
a mysterious message from a world
beyond, and it's hidden inside.
An astroid named R 2D two.
Now he interprets that message with
the help of the wise old Ben Kenobi,
right, and through some tests and some
trials, he meets Han Solo, chewy and
Princess Leia, and guided by the force.
Luke destroys the death star and begins
his journey toward becoming a Jedi.
It follows the pattern, a call to
adventure, a mentor, new allies,
new enemies, a great ordeal,
and a return home with wisdom.
Right, something he did not have before
he started the journey and something he
only gained through the journey itself.
Now, I could tell you the story of
theses from Greece, ananzi from West
Africa, Katniss Everdeen from District
12, or Frodo Baggins from the Shire.
And all of them would follow
this same basic structure.
These stories, they stick with us because
they mirror our internal blueprint
for transformation, and they remind
us of the lives we aspire to live.
The heroes we love, they reflect the best
and the bravest parts of who we can be.
They show us what it means to stop
pretending, to stop going through
the motions, what it means to follow
your own path, your own heart.
Or, as Joseph Campbell put
it to follow your bliss.
So my question is, what if we
walked this path on purpose?
What if we retraced the maze and
went on a quest in pursuit of
the truth beneath the pretense?
To bridge the gap between the person
we think we are and the person
we were before the world told us
we needed to be something else.
What if instead of pretending you
became the main character in your own
life, what if you stopped performing
and started becoming, what if you
walked away from the role you've been
playing and walked back toward the
person you don't have to pretend to be?
And what if you built a life.
A life that allows that person
to be present 100% of the time.
That sounds nice, doesn't it?
Well, that's what this course is.
It's not a productivity hack.
It's not a motivational pep talk.
It's a map, a mirror.
It's your invitation to finally come home.
You might not live on a desert
planet with two sons like Luke did,
but your story has the potential
to follow the exact same structure.
So you can become the best and
bravest version of yourself, following
your own heart, your own path.
But if this is a map, then it
should give us some insight
into the road ahead, right?
Yeah.
Let's take a look.
All right, so this journey home
starts in the ordinary world, and this
is where many of us are right now.
This is life behind the mask, right?
Things may look fine, but you feel that
quiet discontent, some things not right.
Our call to adventure is when
we begin to acknowledge that
war cry that I talked about.
And sometimes this shows
up as a crisis, right?
It could be a, a job loss,
a health scare, a breakup.
Sometimes though it's more subtle, a
book, a conversation, or maybe some
bald guy is talking to you in an online
course, and it evokes images of the
ways that your own life is misaligned.
But no matter the source,
something stirs, okay.
Now, even after this stirring,
most of us are gonna hesitate.
At first, we'll consider the
cost and we'll make excuses.
I don't have time.
What if I fail?
What will people think?
And a lot of people get stuck here.
Okay?
And like Jonah in the whale
though, the longer you wait,
the more painful it becomes.
Because when you start to
acknowledge that misalignment, it's
like a hangnail or a cold sore.
It becomes the thing you
notice more than anything else.
But.
There's also a benefit to this.
You'll also start to see the people
and the resources that can help
get you out of that situation.
And maybe this is a teacher, right?
A therapist or a coach like me.
Maybe it's a story you hear that helps
you see things a little bit differently.
Maybe it's learning to
trust your intuition.
Whatever it is, congratulations,
because you now have everything
you need to hit rock bottom.
No, it's not what it sounds like.
Okay.
It's simply the moment where the pain
of staying the same outweighs the fear
of change, and it's a beautiful moment.
You say, enough, I choose truth over
pretense, authenticity, over comfort.
I'm going to show my true self
and I'm gonna live my life
on my terms no matter what.
And this is actually our first test.
And this test shows us who
has been holding us back and
who will help us move forward.
Brene Brown, she says that our
ability to experience true belonging
is directly proportional to
our capacity for vulnerability.
So in our desire to belong as the
person we really are, we show ourselves.
And it isn't always a happily ever
after, like in the fairytales.
Not everyone will accept us,
sometimes even the people we
thought we were safe with.
But rejection is a filter.
It shows us who wants us for who we
really are and who has only ever been
in it for who we pretended to be.
And we'll need those new allies
because the real test still awaits.
And this is the dragon
from the fairytales, right?
The boss level.
This is the death star.
This is a place where we
don't simply remove the mask.
We begin to dig up the parts of
ourselves that we buried so deep we
didn't even know they were there.
Where the previous stage tested
others' ability to accept us.
This stage tests our own ability to
accept ourselves, and this is where we
uproot the beliefs about who we could
be and who we couldn't be keeping what
we want and cutting away the rock.
It's painful and it's scary, but it's
so worth it because everyone knows what
happens after you slay the dragon, right?
Yeah.
That reunion of the Prince and
the princess from the stories.
This time, it's the reunion with your true
self and the life you were meant to live.
You know who you really are now.
You've done the work, you've
reclaimed your authenticity, you
know your true worth, and you feel
unstoppable, which is good because
the journey isn't over quite yet.
Yeah.
Now you integrate.
You carry that clarity into your
relationships, your work, your life.
Maybe that shows up as healthy
boundaries for the first time, right?
Boundaries.
The distance at which I can love
both you and me simultaneously.
Maybe you stop limiting your talent.
You go out and play that open mic night
you've been dreaming of, and when you hear
the applause, it fills you with more joy
that you didn't even know you could feel.
And now that you know the cost and the
benefit, you're ready to commit, this
is the phoenix rising from the ashes,
the hero coming up from the underworld.
You don't just dabble
in authenticity anymore.
You embody it.
You see old patterns and
you choose differently.
That life that you built before
you started your journey, it
was designed to serve someone
you no longer even recognize.
So you change it.
Maybe you choose a different career
path, one that aligns with your heart
instead of your family's expectations.
Maybe you leave the relationship
that forced you to hide who
you really were to be accepted.
Whatever it is you redesign your
life for the person you were always
meant to be, and you don't settle
for anything less, no more hiding.
But everything up to this point has
been transformation for ourselves.
The coolest part comes next when you
get to share what you found with others.
Now, this is Prometheus coming back
down the mountain with fire, right?
It's Frodo bringing peace back to
the Shire and all of middle Earth.
Your presence becomes a gift.
You live from purpose,
you lead from truth.
You become a beacon of what's
possible for all of those yet
to begin their own journey.
And that becomes your mission, your
purpose, to shine a light on what was
once darkness for you and because of you.
Others no longer have to
live in that darkness.
You've heard the phrase, change
your story, change your life.
This is what it's all about.
It's about waking up on the page
of your life that's yet unfolding
and realizing that you're not just
a character in your life story.
You're also, its author.
It's realizing that every
challenge you face, every mask
you've worn, every mistake along
the way, none of it was wasted.
It was all plot development.
They were the raw ingredients
necessary for your gift to form.
Spider-Man, he was bitten.
Harry Potter lost his parents, and like
a bunch of other weird stuff happened.
The titans were up against an enemy
bigger than any they'd ever faced before.
Without struggle, there's
no transformation.
There's no story worth telling.
Your life up to this point hasn't been
a mistake or a series of wrong turns.
It's been the perfect setup for your
comeback story, and this is a lot of
what I do in my coaching practice.
We reframe history, we rewrite narratives,
we locate where we are in the story
and begin to live it on purpose.
And it's not all swords
and stones and evil uncles.
It is sometimes as simple as bringing
up a hobby that you once loved, and
that's enough to change everything.
Your life doesn't need to be replaced.
It needs to be reclaimed.
So over the next several weeks, I invite
you to, I accept that you were born whole
and that that wholeness is still there.
Recognize that the pain, the restlessness,
the emptiness you feel isn't a defect.
It's your soul sending up a flare.
Save me.
Understand that the journey
isn't about becoming someone new.
It's about remembering someone old.
I invite you to know, know deep in
your bones that every single misstep
has prepared you for this moment.
You already have what you need.
The stories you've known your entire
life have trained you for this.
The path is already within you.
The journey home to yourself may be the
most important adventure you'll ever
take for yourself, for your family.
All that's left is to answer the call.
I'll see you in the next video.
It's, it's much shorter than this one.
They're all much shorter than this one.
This one is, this was pretty long,
but, uh, I like to hear myself talk.
So anyway, I'll see you in the next video.